OK, we're all set then. Alright,
so this is module 4. We're going
to cover.
We're going to cover.
Problem based operations for
this module.
Umm, I'm going to cover a little
bit of feedback and a couple of
things with the try catch
blocks, but this one is going to
be a specifically about reading
from files writing two files.
Again, this should cover or. I'm
sorry this module, all your
assignments and everything
should cover the same content or
same topic, so that should help
with. I guess keeping on the
same page for all the assignment
stuff so.
Umm, the assignments, the
programming ones are similar.
And also different. They both
will do one part of the file
based operations but one will do
a little bit more. But again
I'll walk you through a lot of
this in the demo and hopefully
leave you with enough
information and sort of like a
template that you can also
complete.
You're going to be assignment.
So alright, let's move along
now.
OK, alright. Not too, brother.
OK, alright. So academic
integrity usually write about
now is one thing starts to come
up with academic integrity
violations, specifically dealing
with coursework that you find
outside or solutions that you
find outside of the course. I've
mentioned this already. I think
a couple times at least, but
it's really important that you
don't do it even if you
reference an outside.
Well, reference, I asked if you
reference an outside source.
Uh, from outside of this course
and you reference that in your
solution that still not correct.
This is obviously not talking
about discussion posts because
that you should be referencing
where you're getting information
from as it's typically not gonna
be your own except for like your
opinion and explanations on it.
But for coding assignments
especially, it should be all and
Tyler entirely your own work.
With the exception of, if I
provide you something right. So
if if for the assignment I give
you some of my code for my
demos, you can use that to piece
together your assignment. If you
see how I'm using something to
find a sorted array or to sort
numbers that you can use that
because I've given it to you.
Now, if you're looking for this
solution outside of the course
and you copy that and you paste
it in your assignment and submit
it as if you had done it
yourself, that's where we have
problems.
And I've been teaching this for
a little while now. It's so it's
there's certain things that I'll
see with an assignment that'll
kind of set off a red flag.
Uh, to kind of let me know that
it was copied so.
Yeah, I I would just say, you
know, avoid it at all costs,
even if it comes from a tutor,
I'm more than happy to help.
I've I've met with a handful of
you now and walked you through.
I mean, anything that you need
help with. So I'm more than
happy to do that and meet with
you. We've set up a time
whenever we can and we can go
through things together. I'd
much rather do that than to have
to have someone resubmit
assignment or deal with the
academic integrity stuff because
if it's a blatant copy and
paste, that doesn't look too
well and it's pretty hard to.
Are you against? So yeah, if you
need any help, let me know. You
can use some tutoring services
although.
Honestly, from feedback I get,
it's probably just best to reach
out to me. So alright, hopefully
that clears it up a little bit.
Just don't copy and paste.
OK, Java versus JavaScript. I
see this kind of confused a lot.
Java and JavaScript or if
someone has learned JavaScript
in the past.
And is kind of getting confused
with some of the terminology.
Well, that's because Java and
JavaScript are like totally
different. They're nothing
alike. Ohh I can't remember the
history behind the name of it.
But they're they're not the same
languages. Ones made for like
web-based stuff. The other one
is not really, so they're
definitely completely different.
If you were to code something in
JavaScript and submit that, I'm
sorry, but that would not be a
Java program as they're
completely different. So I'm
just keep that in mind if you
are confused about it, just make
sure that you are doing your
work in Java. If you're using
that.
I guess JavaScript language for
any discussion posts just also
keep in mind that that will
probably be confusing to other
students as JavaScript does not
look much like Java O.
Just wanted to clear that up,
alright, the discussion
overview, we're response
requirements first, I just want
to make sure that everyone is
aware. I do state it you know
every lecture but it probably
gets missed sometimes.
Your initial discussion post
should be at least two
paragraphs, and each paragraph
should be at least four
sentences. So if you think about
it, you should have at least
eight sentences total. I hate to
be one to, like, be nitpicky at
counting sentences.
Uh, but when we're doing our
discussions and you're
submitting a ton of stuff with
lots of code in it, it's gonna
be best if we do have some sort
of explanation with it.
Otherwise we're just.
Putting in a lot of code
examples and nothing else along
with it, it's kind of hard for
anyone else to understand what
you're trying to to show
everyone, so it's important that
we at least meet those
requirements.
OK, importance of error
handling. I think everyone did
pretty good on this. That's
typically how it is with these
discussions. So I'm usually not
too worried about it, especially
if we cover the content in
class. I think the first couple
of modules are really something
that's like look up on your own.
It doesn't help that the lecture
is also on the night that you're
supposed to have your initial
discussion post to do, but.
What I'm seeing a lot is pretty
much everyone is, at least on
the same page with it. There's a
lot of great points that are
being addressed by a lot of you
in in different perspectives, so
it's great to see.
Now, along with that topic,
something that I've been asked a
lot is about the different types
of use of try catch blocks and
where to put them really.
Umm.
Let me see here.
O.
There's sort of an argument for
whether or not you should put
try catch blocks.
Essentially around your whole
program. Or do you just put it
around certain sections of code
that you want to do some type of
calculations for and I'll just
walk you through kind of what it
looks like if we are going to
put try catch blocks around
everything or just different
sections and you'll see how some
of this can bubble up, you'll
see what I mean by that because
I reference that or I say that.
Umm, I think I saw that in the
past module the past lecture
about how you know these
exceptions could bubble up, so
I'll show you what that looks
like and hopefully this will
give you a better. I guess
understanding of how this will
work now in terms of where
should you put it. You typically
don't want to put all of your
code in a try catch or in the
try block.
But for this course, that's
completely fine. It's really not
gonna cause a problem. There are
certain use cases where you may
not want to do that. If you have
a large program and you're just
constantly putting everything to
try catch blocks a lot of times
that will create a lot of bloat
or a lot of.
It'll slow things down because
essentially you could be logging
things in many places and you
really don't have to be. And if
you have track cashbox
everywhere, things can start to
get confusing where you're
handling things and you may not
need to handle them in certain
spots and.
It can just create kind of a
mess, so you should be throwing
all your code or I should say
throwing code in trycatch blocks
when it makes the most sense.
O I'll kind of show what that's
like in just a second here, but
first.
We'll go ahead and walk through
this real quick here. What I
have here is I just have this
program, it's got 3 methods in
it. Each one is just gonna print
out like it's inside of method
one. It's exiting method one
inside method 2, exiting method
two inside method three and
inside method three it's going
to try and divide by zero. So
we're going to throw an
exception there. We're going to
cause an exception and then it
should print out exiting method
three as well so.
Assuming this works, I'm just
going to make it not have a
problem. We'll go ahead and
actually continue through and
run it.
Except that's not what I wanted.
There you go. OK, so if nothing
wrong happens. What this looks
like here, you should say inside
main method, which is what we
happened first. The first thing
we do in the main method is
we're calling method one. I'm
nesting these. So inside method
one it's gonna call method two.
Inside method two it's gonna
call method three and method 3
is gonna do some math and print
out the result. So what you see
here at the bottom, it's saying
it's inside method or inside the
main method. It was inside one
inside two and then while it was
inside method three, we did the
math.
You did 5 / 1, so the answer is
5 and then we're exiting, so
you'll see it'll work its way
back out so it says exit method
3 exiting method two, method one
and then finally exiting the
main method. So it goes inside
all of those because they're
nested, comes right back out.
Now inside that furthest one in
method three, I'm going to throw
an exception in here.
Now if you see I have try catch
blocks, they're on every single
basically chunk we have here. I
have one within each method as
well as the main method there.
So what that will look like if I
run it is. You'll see it says
inside main method inside method
one method two method three and
then it's gonna actually tell us
we have an exception. We try to
divide by zero so it's telling
us this right here arithmetic
exception in module 4 lesson.
And I actually have it tell us
what line we're at. So if I
click on it, it will highlight
the line that we have the error
at.
It's really useful to have. I
suggest taking this line and
putting it in your programs
whenever you want to handle
exceptions, because if you do
have one, it'll tell you exactly
where it came from.
So anyway, so we're going in
there. It actually prints out
that.
I'm sorry it doesn't print the
result out because the exception
happened aligned 40, so it
doesn't make it that far. It
jumps out of the into the catch
block and then it prints out
what the exception was. But as
you can see it continues on. It
goes and says OK, we're exiting
method three and then it works
its way all the way back up.
Method Two, method one blah blah
blah all the way out so that
works as expected here where
we're catching that exception in
method 3 and that's where it's
actually printing it out. But
since we're handling it
properly, it can actually.
Go ahead and continue on the
code as if it's just fine. We
handled the exception.
In this case, we're just
printing it out, but what we can
also do is throw that exception
if we don't want to actually
handle it at this point and
we'll see what that looks like
right here. So I'm gonna comment
that out. Instead. I'm gonna say
throw E I'm throwing that
exception. That object there. So
now I'm gonna go ahead and run
it again.
And you'll see now I have inside
main method inside method one
method two method three it threw
this exception which we were
expecting right dividing by
zero. But now instead of saying
exit method three it just goes
exit method two method one and
then main method and that's
because in this part we decided
to say hey, we're not gonna
handle it right here. We're
gonna pass it out. We're going
to bubble up to the top. And
which case the next try catch
block is gonna be inside method
too.
So that's what we see here in
method 2.
That is being caught and it's
actually just able to continue
on. So because we're throwing
it. So we're gonna go into
method 2 here. And you know
what? Maybe I should just walk
through it. But you can see that
it actually says exiting method
too. So what actually ran that
code? It continues along and
then we go to method one exiting
method one and then finally the
main method. So the only code it
didn't actually hit was the part
that it is the part after
directly after it messed up with
the dividing by zero because it
didn't hit this.
But once we finally did it, we
were able to catch it, and then
we could just basically pass
that along all the way up.
So I could also.
Let's see here.
We'll just go through it there,
alright inside method.
Ah, that's because I just
stepped over it. Alright, let's
try this again.
Alright, step into it here.
Just kidding. Not that one.
Alright, step into this on
method one. OK, we're gonna step
into method two, so we're in
method two. We're gonna step
into method 3. Alright, so now
we're inside. Method three.
We're going to divide by zero.
And it catches it, but since
we're not actually handling it
here, we're just throwing it,
right? So this means we're just
passing it back along. We're
gonna say, hey, we're not gonna
handle this. And this one, we're
just gonna continue. That's what
it's doing here. So when we step
into that or over this, you'll
see that it bounces back and it
catches it in the method. Two is
catchment.
Yeah, catch my or catch block
here.
And now what that looks like is
it just jumps into here and this
is now where it prints out that
exception. O. If you saw that it
went from this throw E straight
into method two. That's why we
weren't able to print out
exiting method 3 because we
never made it that far. Instead
we just bounced it out. Just say
hey, no catch that in the one
above this which is here. So now
it can print it out. And now
we've handled it properly which
means we can actually continue
on with our codes saying exit
method two and then it will go
on and and then say exit method.
Non blah blah. If you notice
when I was when it was just here
it actually skipped over line 22
it didn't print out anything and
that's because we already
handled it. So there was not.
There wasn't an exception that
needed to be caught because we
already handled it. So that's
why it's bubbling back out here
and it's saying, hey, all right,
cool. We've got all these. We're
exiting the methods properly and
so on. So that's what that looks
like if we throw it. This just
allows it to be handled
elsewhere and not directly where
we've caught it here so.
The other thing I wanted to
point out then is.
I guess what would you use case
be to not want to have it?
Inside of basically every
method, right? We only want it
to be in a specific place. We
don't wanna just dump everything
in a try block. We have a
specific use case we want for it
that would make sense to put it
in a very specific area and in
this case I have this program
here. This one is just finishing
up, so hopefully it works here.
I just have a wire loop, right?
So it's basically just taking
inputs just like your BMI
programs. I think you'll
actually have to start doing
this one. I don't think you've
had to loop through it yet, but
you will. You'll have to loop
through the inputs so you can
take it repeatedly. So I guess
you could probably use this to
help you. Alright, so this is
asking for your name, your age
and your years, and then like
your favorite color. However,
right after it asks your age
when it takes that input, it's
gonna go ahead and print the age
out, but in order to do that I'm
converting it first to an
integer value.
Let me just fix this right here
already have a problem. Alright,
it's gonna convert it to an
integer value and I'm taking
them as a string for the input.
So assuming that type in
something that isn't a number it
should cause an exception to
happen and we'll see what
happens with that. So that
happens directly after you enter
your age. It will do the
calculations and then after that
it's going to ask what your
favorite color is and then after
that it will say press Q to quit
or any other key to continue.
I hope it works because I didn't
actually test it yet and I did
it really quickly. So alright,
so let's go ahead and.
Let me see if I can.
Put a breakpoint and we'll see
what happens. I'm curious now.
And let's see here favorite
color.
Blue. Sure. OK. So then if I
press a key, it's going to loop
through it, all right, this is
what we want to see. So it's
gonna continuously loop through
it actually.
I guess I'm not really.
I don't really need this here,
alright? I guess that was only
matter so.
OK.
For blue and we can just keep
continuing, I guess I can just
press enter, let's say John 50
and.
Green. OK, so it'll keep looping
through this and it's just fine.
So if I were to continue though,
and I enter a value that is not
a number, let's see what
happens. All right, so it's
gonna say incorrect value.
Please try again and then it's
gonna ask us for the name again.
It's gonna start over right? In
which case, maybe we'll fix it.
And we'll actually do the age
right and we'll say.
UH-45 favorite color is, let's
say, it's also green, and we're
going to go ahead and quit this
time around.
And it didn't quit. OK, so that
obviously it's something that I
need to fix. OK, so my point
that I wanna show here though is
that.
What how it handles this
exception here? So I'm gonna put
this break point right here
where it's at and we're gonna go
ahead and debug it and you'll
see what's happening and why
this is kind of a special
situation, I guess.
Alright, I think I'm alright, so
I'll continue here.
Alright, I'm gonna go ahead and
mess it up already. Alright? So
right now I entered my age and
it's gonna go ahead and try and
convert that into an integer
value.
Umm. Let's see here. First I
want to make sure I'm not
missing any.
OK, it's going to first try
convert it to an integer value.
In which case it can't, right?
So it's not going to be able to
print out your age is whatever
the age is, right? So when I
step in, when I step over that
you can see it bounced out of
the method because I'm not
catching anything inside the
print age method right here. So
that means that it's going to
bubble up outside of that print
age method. And fortunately I
have that method call right
here, line 19 inside of a try
block, which means now I'm going
to catch it properly. And which
case, I'm gonna say incorrect.
They please try again and then
directly after that I'm going to
say continue and that means it's
going to start the loop over.
So this is where I want to
handle it, because if I handle
it inside of here, it's not
gonna return the result like I
want like like. I'm sorry what I
want to do is I want to ask the
user to just start over, retype
it right, but that's not gonna
be something I can easily do
from inside the method because.
Umm my loop is outside of it, so
the easiest way for me to do
that is to just catch that in my
loop right here rather than
inside my method. Because
imagine if I put the try catch
in here and then I said OK and
correct value. Try again.
It's not gonna like know that it
needs to go back to the loop
again. It's just gonna keep
continuing and and try and
proceed forward with it. It's
not gonna have register that
properly. The flow of our
program isn't being properly
executed. So that's why I have
the try catch block here instead
of inside the part where it's
actually converting. Excuse me,
it's actually converting it.
We're normally you think that's
where you put it, right? We
wanna put code inside of our
tribe block that we could
reasonably expect to catch an
exception or to have some type
of a problem.
But in this case I don't want to
actually catch it in the print
age part. I want it to bubble up
so that I when I do catch it in
the loop, I can very easily just
say try again and start the loop
over and that's the whole point
of this right here.
So in this case I could just go
through continue. You can see
continue just brings me right
back to the beginning. It
doesn't even ask for my favorite
color. It doesn't ask for me to
print out the queue character or
anything like that because I
just want you to start over also
that would be important because
imagine if I wanted to also do
something with that age value
after I've taken that in. If I
try to do something with that
value outside of this try catch
block and I didn't say continue.
I could have more more
exceptions that it would happen
because maybe my value wouldn't.
Well, obviously it wouldn't be a
number in this case. It would be
letters. So if I tried to do
more stuff with it, I'd have
more problems.
So that's another reason why we
would want to actually handle it
properly and just have them
start over again rather than
continuing along with the code
to enter their favorite color.
So that's what this is doing
here.
All right.
I'll make sure that that queue
thing works before I submit
this.
For you guys to use if you want.
Alright, wow, wait too much time
on that, OK?
Course Friday to assignment, uh
module 3, assignment module 4
content. OK alright.
Cool. Let's get to that then.
Let's see.
The no. But the lessons we're
going to do the project 1st
module 3 be my calculator.
Alright, so this one I think the
biggest issues people were
having are gonna be with where
do I put everything?
And.
What do I do with my finally
block? And there's a couple of
issues that can come up with how
you decide to do it in this
solution here and this example I
put essentially everything that
I could in the try block. This
is really kind of the easiest
way to do it.
It really doesn't matter if you
have, you know, the best
practice of where you're putting
your stuff.
All I really wanna see is that
you're using it properly. You're
not just throwing in an empty
try catch block somewhere, but
you're actually using it O. This
is what I'm doing. Everything is
inside the try block, so if
anything were to happen at all,
I would catch that and then it
would just print out what the
exception is and then and then
finally block. I'm closing the
scanner. This is what I wanted
to see something happening and
finally block that makes sense
and in my case I'm closing this
scanner and then I'm also
printing out a message saying
yeah, you completed it or know
it had an error.
And they'll be the way it does.
That is, I have this string
value away at the top here that
is hardcoded to say program
ended successfully. So by
default if nothing wrong
happens, it will print that
message out here at the bottom
that it ended successfully.
However, if an error happens and
I catch it.
I change that message to now say
program ended with an error and
then it will still go in the
finally block and print that
out. And now what we'll say
program it in with an error
instead of program ended
successfully.
OK, so I don't really think.
Let's see here.
Yeah, let's.
I don't. I honestly think that
I'm gonna have to really run
through this unless y'all want
me to. But I just wanted to show
that this is really how you do
it. The one thing that is
causing problems for, I guess,
really the main problems is
really related to scope,
especially if you wanted to use
block somewhere like calculating
any values, right? So if I
wanted to do it for calculating
the BMI here, I could throw it
in here, right? I could say all
right, I'm just gonna put.
A calculation method or my
calculation, you know, this is
the method called. The method is
doing the calculation, but let's
say I just want to put this in a
try catch block. You know I can
do that, right? I'll put this
code inside of here and I'll put
my catch after it.
OK.
Umm. Let's see. Should we be
using multiple public methods in
our code or is this just going
straight forward? OK Ohh like
creating separate methods
instead of just having it all in
one.
Is that what you're referring
to?
Yes, OK. Going forward. I would,
I would suggest at this point
you either should have or. I
would suggest doing it. It's not
required yet, but you will have
to do it anyways. At least
creating one additional method
because we're gonna get into
abstraction which requires the
whole concept of inheritance.
And that whole thing child
parent class, that stuff, which
means that you're gonna need a
method at some point, right? So
it's just easiest if you create
a method, I would suggest
creating a method that will do
the calculation.
Umm. Or maybe figuring out the
categories? I mean I have three
different ones here.
When to calculate 1 to find the
category, one to find the other
category you know I would
suggest doing the same. You
don't have to but the
requirement going forward or at
least in the future assignments
are going to be that you have a
method that you have to use
because you have to implement it
in a certain way. So I would
suggest doing it. It's not
required right now. You don't
have to have multiple ones. I
think they requirement is only
going to say one. Technically
the assignment says using your
previously created method so it
kind of assumes that you would
have already done this.
I just suggest doing it now so
it's easier for you, but you
don't have to. I just have it in
here, so maybe you can follow
that example.
And see how you you can add
these methods so.
Right. Hopefully that answers
your question.
OK, let's see. So I added this
triblock here and I just put
that that calculation part in
here, right. But now you see I
have some underlying like
errors. I have some errors. This
one you can compile and that's
because it says here that BMI
can't be resolved to a variable
and what that means is it
doesn't know what BMI is. It's
like hey, I can't find this like
this variable doesn't exist. But
then you look at the try block
and you're like hey, it does
exist, it's right here, look,
it's a double value. I'm calling
it BMI and we're then calling
the BMI.
Exactly be my method when I say
call, what I mean is I'm gonna
use it. That's what we mean when
we say call when I call this
method, I'm going to use this
method here. So that's what I'm
doing here. So why is it causing
this problem? Well, that's
because inside this try block,
all the code that is created in
here like this BMI value, that's
the scope that it's limited to,
right? So we can't use it
outside of the tribe block
because we created it inside of
it. So it the rest of our code
has no idea what's inside of it.
It's kind of hidden. I guess you
could say.
Essentially, anything within
those curly braces are gonna be
within their own scope. So in
order to fix that, I have to
actually declare this outside of
that block. So what I'll do is
I'll basically just say.
Double BMI equals zero, and then
how I'll use it is I'm just
going to use the variable
directly inside that try block.
That's what I have to do now. So
now I have everything done
properly. I've created it
outside the block, which means
that scope is just, you know,
within the rest of my program.
Essentially within the rest of
this code. So I can use it
anywhere I've created outside
the triblock, which means I can
create it inside or I can use it
inside the triblock as well as
anywhere else I want to outside
the try block too.
So that's probably the most
common issue that I see is
having trouble with. I want to
put this inside of my code
somewhere, but I'm having issues
because of, well, it's it's
scope really. Your code having
to do with that. So just make
sure that if you have any code
or any variables you're creating
and you're try block and you
wanna use it outside of it, you
have to actually create them
outside your try block.
OK.
Let me just go ahead and undo
that, but yeah, that that was
pretty much it as far as the
concept goes, you could have put
any any code you really wanted
to install. The Triblock caught
it, do something on the finally
block that makes sense. And
that's pretty much it.
OK.
Let's move along here.
Steinmetz Module 3 now OK
exception handling. So this one.
Again, the hardest part is
probably understanding
instructions on the whole
calculating or finding the
minimum values, whatever. So
we're just gonna go ahead and
step through it here. I gave you
the template. I thought it was
pretty close, so it should have
helped you guys. What I was
really looking for was that you
used the try catch blocks
properly. So in this case you'll
also see I have pretty much
everything inside of the try
block. Since we're not taking
any input, I actually don't
really have to have anything
outside the triblock except in
my case I want to.
A message in the file name block
and that message depends on
something that happens in the
catch block, which means that I
have to actually declare it
outside of it.
Which I've done here. Now if I
didn't actually have this
variable and I was just going to
like type in a string value in
the finally block, that would be
OK and then I really wouldn't
need anything outside the try
block.
But since we're not taking any
input, you know using the
scanner and all that stuff, you
don't really have to worry about
that. OK, so you had to create
an array that had a size of
1000, which means you had a
collection of values collection
of numbers.
1000 of them the lowest possible
value had to be or the lowest
possible value you could choose
randomly was one and the highest
possible value. You could
choose. Rounding was 10,000.
Then you had to populate that
array with random values that
fall within that range one to
10,000. So you need a thousand
of those. So the easiest way to
do it is going to be what I
provided for you before using
this random class here, creating
a random object and then calling
the ints.
Method filling it with what size
we want the array to be the
lowest value and the highest
value plus one. I explained this
last time, but it's an. It's an
exclusive value for some reason,
so we have to say plus one,
meaning we want to.
Specify the outer bounds to be
10,000 and one.
That way it'll include the
actual 10,000 value.
Otherwise, you'll never actually
hit it, and then we just do 2
array and it actually builds it
and returns it for us. It's
perfect.
It's super easy but easy. I
mean, it's one line of code and
then we need to sort the array.
Now this is important in the
order that you do it in. If
you're gonna follow this
template for how to sort and
find your minimum and maximum
elements. If we didn't sort
first, all our values are out of
order. So the way I'm finding
the minimum element is getting
the first index, the first
value.
Because I'm assuming it's
sorted, so if it's sorted, the
lowest number would be the first
one, and that means also the
highest number would be the last
one. So all I have to find is
the very first value in the
array and the very last one. And
I've already got my min and Max
that'd be the easiest way to do
it, which is why you need to
sort it first, otherwise your
min value that you try to find
is just going to be whatever the
random value was for the first
element and then whatever the
random value was for the last
one. And there's no limit to
like what that could be. It
could be anything from one to
10,000.
So then after you do that, you
just need to find the average
again. You can just do the
arrays dot stream dot average
and it will do it for you. No
need to do the math on your own.
I'm not gonna require that and
then you just got to print out
those values so you can see the
minimum was four Max was 9981
and then it prints out the
average and we're good to go.
So testing whether this worked
or not, you can easily just
remove the -, 1 right here.
And now it's going to try and
get the 10th. Let's see. It's
gonna get the 1001.
1001 element or index and that
doesn't exist, which is why we
always got to -. 1 cause the
zero based index. So if I were
to go through it again here,
that won't work. It's not
possible because look, we have
an exception and it says index
1000 is out of bounds for the
length of 1000.
Umm, so the the last index we
could possibly have would
actually be.
999.
Instead so.
OK. So that's how that works.
Uh, there's any questions, let
me know.
Umm, I mean, that's a
straightforward as I can make it
for you though I think.
You could have left in your
program the like this error if
you did something like that and
you left it in there and I could
see that you intentionally did
that. That would be OK. I
wouldn't really take points off
for that.
Ohm if you left it in just so
you're like forcing it to happen
to say, hey, look it. I'm
actually catching it. That's OK.
I I run through everyone's call.
This is why it's important to
submit like the Java file
because I read through the code
and I run it all. So I'll see if
you put in like an intentional
you know.
Exception in your tribe log, so
you shouldn't get points off for
that.
OK, alright, let's see. So first
before I get to the module 4
stuff, because it requires that
this.
Umm, where is it? Here we go. Uh
file based operations. You need
to know.
Where to get the content for the
assignments for file based
operations so.
Let me show you where that looks
like here and now you can't see
it.
Let me see.
It's actually just the one
assignment. It's going to your
actual module 4 assignment.
If you see here UM.
You'll have to go into the like
content.
Ohh you may not be able to see
this view, but if.
If you click on it, let me see
if I can change it.
Right. If you go into it file
based operations and you click
on the actual assignment here,
you'll see there's a file.
Uh, maybe not. Maybe it's not
listed there. There you go.
Alright. So you'll see this file
here. You'll actually have to
download this. It's required for
your assignment, so make sure
you have this case. I'm going to
refer to it. I've probably also
give this to you in the follow
up announcement as well. Just so
you have it, but it's really
important that you actually use
this because it's required.
Ignore the fact that step one
says read the data from this
Seattle whatever whatever dot
CSV. You know that's a course
error that they're gonna have to
fix. But file based or file
operations data set is what
you'll need to have. So make
sure you download that.
Alright, OK, so file based
operations.
Probably it's operations are. I
mean the really important and
that's how you read and write 2
files from inside of your
program.
In Java, we primarily use two
ways to read write to files when
we can use the files class or
input output streams. Now,
typically speaking, the files
class is really only good for
small files. It's not really
efficient or as efficient as
using for streams, which means
that streams are preferred for
essentially all of the file
sizes.
We will stick with using those
in our.
I guess examples here going
forward, but just know that
that's kind of a difference
between the two. You'll see why
streams are actually pretty
beneficial here O.
Streams input output streams
are. Think of them like water
pipes, right? It's essentially
what connects the water from the
city water or the well, if you
have one to your household.
It's it's what connects it. All
right? It's the. I don't know
the the method of travel.
Uh, so that's kind of what they
are for your data. It connects
your data to your program to
your code, so then we can use
it. That's what a stream is. So
there's two primary types of
streams that are streams that's
gonna be input and output makes
sense. One stream for taking in
values and one stream for.
Outputting values.
So each of these types has two
classes. You have a reader and a
writer, so a reader is for
reading characters like text
values, string values, right
characters, or a writer. Same
thing. But for writing text
value, string characters, stuff
like that. However, an input
stream and output stream.
Umm are much more robust because
they can read binary data, which
means that you can actually read
essentially any type of file. Is
not an image of video, audio,
you name it. It can be all sorts
of stuff, so you're not just
limited to reading plain text
files or any just text value,
log files, stuff like that. So
what you can do is much more
with input and output streams.
So something neat here is that
streams will implement the auto
closeable interface. Now I don't
know if you or remember, but I
use this terminology previously
auto closable when dealing with
the try catch blocks and that's
because we have the try block
that we can use by itself called
the try with resources which is
the try block with the
parentheses right after it. And
you don't have a catcher finally
block but you have to use
something that implements the
auto closeable and that would
be.
Like a scanner or a a stream,
which is what we will be using
here. O it's best to always use
the buffer version and you'll
see us go through that here.
Buffering reads blocks of data
at a time rather than single
characters bytes. It just more
efficient. So what we want to do
is we want to make sure that we
use the buffered version. It's
not really going to have that
much of an impact for us because
we're just reading pretty basic
text data in our programs here
that we're going to use for our
assignments.
But let's say you had a much
more massive program and you're
reading all sorts of stuff.
Maybe it was, or maybe you're
doing, you know, video files or
what have you. It's gonna be
much better to use buffered
input or output stream than it
would be to use the non buffered
version. Because of that, so
it'll read blocks at a time.
Alright, so now we can go
through and demo it.
All right, I know it's the most
exciting part, alright.
Let's see. Usual 4. Alright, so
I really only have two here and
these two are going to be what
hopefully you can use for your
assignments.
And you'll have to use a
combination of the two for one
assignment, and pretty much just
one of them. For the other
assignment. So we'll go through
these together now. I highly
suggest that you go through
these again. I will post these.
I highly suggest you go through
these and your end so you can
step through them and see
exactly how these work.
And.
Run these on your end so the way
that I had these set up is that
we have essentially one that is
going to take input from a user
and it's going to, I'm sorry,
actually right here, this one is
gonna take input from a user.
You can see I have this wire
loop here and I'm asking hey,
enter your name, your favorite
color, number of pets, and then
I'm going to take that and I'm
going to write that to a file,
and it's going to be in a CSV
format, which if you're not
familiar with what a CSV format
is, it means it's comma.
Separated values, So what?
That's gonna look like is.
Let's see here.
That I just exit out of this.
That's really weird.
There we go. Java funnels. Let's
see colors and pets.
Alright.
Sorry, I gotta open the file
quick.
All right. So if you were to
open, uh, CSV file like in
notepad, this is what it would
look like right here. Here's an
example of the output that I
created from this and you'll see
that in a little bit here, but
it's all value separated by
commas, name, comma, favorite
color, comma, number of pets,
and then I have Daniel comma,
blue comma four and John White
one so.
That's CSV failure. All the
values will be separated by
commas on their own separate
lines. Think of it as like rows
and columns where the columns
are split by commas and each
line is a row. So what you can
do actually Excel handles these
really great and this is what
you can use to verify things
with. But if you open it up, by
default Excel wants to open up
my CSV files. So when I do that,
it's going to open it.
In a spreadsheet, because Excel
knows exactly how to handle
these files, it's going to
display it properly. So I have a
header row name, favorite color
number, Reds, and then I have
the actual rows of values
beneath them, and this is what
we're looking for here.
So if you were to open up this
crime data stuff for your actual
assignment.
It will look like this in a
spreadsheet.
Where you have all these values,
it's a ton of them. I'm not
really sure what it's like 50.
Well, 14,000 rows. So it's a
lot. It's a lot of data. And
you're gonna sit through it all,
but it'll be pretty easy once
you get the operations going
here. So that's what it looks
like in Excel. But if you were
to actually edit this CSV file,
say in Notepad, right click it
and go to edit, it's gonna look
like this.
It's just not as easy to read,
but you can see all of them are
separated by commas. They
appropriate values aren't, so
that's what a CSV file is.
OK, so this this program here is
gonna do. It's gonna basically
take in the values that I want.
I'm gonna ask. I'm gonna ask
your name, favorite color pets,
and then it's gonna output that
into that file in that format
that I just showed.
OK so.
If you're going to use my demos
here, I suggest doing the output
demo first, because it's going
to create the file that is
required for the input demo,
because if you see here the
input demo is just reading the
input, which means that assumes
that you already have this file
created. So if you don't, it's
going to be like. Where's this
file at? I can't find it
exception and it's not going to
like it, so we're gonna go ahead
and do the output one first.
Now if you see here.
There's this try with resources
block. I have a try block right
here that takes in this. Well
this parameters here and in that
we're actually going to
instantiate and create our
buffered writer. We just do it
inside of there, just like that
one demo I showed previously of
the try with resources.
In this case, I'm actually using
a catch block also and finally a
block. Again, I'm putting all my
code in this to keep it simple
for everyone.
You don't have to worry about,
you know, doing some special
cases here. You can put it on
the one try catch block if you
want.
OK, so this is what I've done
for here. Let me run and debug
it so you can all see it.
Alright, so we're stopped first.
Actually, first it created the
scanner because we're taking
input and then next we're going
through the try block. The first
part though, like I said, we're
gonna actually create this here.
This is the syntax you're going
to want to use. This is how you
type it. This first part right
here should look familiar.
Sorry there, I'll make it a
little bit bigger. Hopefully
this first partial look
familiar. Specifying the type,
giving it a name. I'm calling it
B writer equals new buffered
writer. Now inside of that it
takes in a parameter value
first. So you actually have to
pass in a new file writer
object, so it might be a little
confusing to kind of understand
what that's all doing here.
Essentially what it's doing is
it's just creating this file and
it's opening it up saying hey,
I'm ready to write to it.
Well, it's doing so instead of
having to understand everything,
specifically the details of how
it's doing this, you can just
kind of copy what this is doing
here like this line and put it
in your own. You can put your
own file paths in here. It's
easiest if you create it simple
and don't just put like your
entire user file path with your
whole workspace blah blah all
that stuff. I just put it in a
folder that's in my root C drive
here folder called Java files
and I put it in there. If you
keep that I mean great, it will
make it easier, but you can
really put it wherever you want.
The lines you remember where
it's going.
So that's what this is doing.
It's just creating that file.
The next thing I'm doing, I'm
creating so this is we'll have
to kind of keep up with it here
with the concepts. I'm creating
a list of lists now. A list is
kind of like an array and this
case is an array list, but a
list is like an array. It's a
collection of values. But the
nice thing about a list is that
I'm not limited to a specific
length, I don't have to specify
its an array of size 10, right?
It can be whatever size I want
it to be.
I can add things to it. I can
remove things from it. It
doesn't matter. I can do all of
that and it's really flexible.
So that's what we're going to do
here because we don't know how
much input we're going to take
in. I may ask for input 100
times. I may ask for it once we
don't know, so I'm gonna use an
array list here. This is what I
suggest doing, especially
because you'll help
understanding another concept
going forward that this is a
data structure. It's just a
collection.
All right, so I'm creating a
list of lists, which means I'm
creating a single list, right? A
single collection of values, but
each one of those values is
another list, right? So think of
it as A2 dimensional array where
I have rows and columns, right?
So my first list is gonna be
basically.
Umm all of my columns, but then
my second one is gonna be all
the rows defining in it or all
the rows specified in it. So the
overall list is just holding my
rows. So this inner list you see
here.
Think of those as like as just
each row that I will have.
And I'm storing them in the
outer list O to make it a little
easier, I just have everything
kind of named a little
differently. Here I have I have
I have my variable name instead
of calling it list something or
whatever I'm calling it output
table. So I think there's a
table if you work with Excel
spreadsheets or databases or
whatnot, it's just the table. We
basically that you can use. You
can put tables and word
documents, so hopefully you're
kind of familiar with that. A
table just consists of rows and
columns spreadsheet, right? Just
like an Excel spreadsheet. So
I'm creating an output table
here.
Once I've declared that because
I need to create an outside the
loop because I want to use it
afterwards. That's why I have to
worry about that scope issue,
right? I want to use it inside
the while loop, but I also want
to use it outside of it. So I
mean I have to create it outside
the while loop, so I've created
it. I'm going in my wild loop.
I'm saying hey, just continue
looping until I press the Q key
to quit right here and that's
just gonna happen. So I'm
creating the first thing I'm
doing inside this while loop.
I'm creating that that inner
list I'm I'm creating the row
every time I loop through this
and I take input I'm taking that
value and which is essentially
just one row of data. The name,
color, pet it's just one row. So
every time I go through the loop
I need to create a new row. So
that's what it's doing here at
the beginning of every time it
goes through here, it creates a
new row and this case.
Technically speaking it's a list
of strings, right? So it's a
collection of string values. The
string being the name, the color
of the pet.
So then I'm going to take those
inputs and I'm going to just add
them.
To that row, I'm going to say
output row dot add scanner next
line and it's gonna wait for me
to type in my name.
I type my name in and then it's
gonna go the next one. What's
your favorite color? And I'm
going to type that one in there.
Then it's going to the next one
number of pets. I have two
Westies.
And then that's it. That's
that's all I want for that. Now
when I'm done taking those
inputs in, I'm gonna add that.
Uh, or I'm sorry.
Well, there you go. I've added
it to my room. So now if I hover
over my row, I can see every
item in that collection. I have
Daniel Blue and two right here.
Let's set out kind of like an
array. Like so there's an array
list because that's more
flexible, so it should seem kind
of familiar for this too. Or if
you've talked to this in the
past, so now I can see, hey, my
output rolled that array list is
populated, all the values are
right now that I have on my role
completed on my values are
there. I'm gonna wanna add that
to my table right? Which is my.
Outside list. So that's what
this is doing here. It's saying
output table add row.
Technically speaking, it's list
dot add another list, right? So
that's what we're doing here.
Add it to my table and then I'm
going to ask hey, do you want to
quit or do you want to continue?
I'm going to continue and then
it's just gonna go through it
again. It creates another row.
Ask for the first value.
Uh. Favorite color.
And number of pets.
In this case, let's say there's
just one, and then we're going
to add that also to the table.
Now, since we have more than one
value, let's go ahead and hover
over table and you can see that
table has a collection of two
items here, and each one is an
array list. Now if I click on
each one of those, I'll see
their own set of collections
within them, right? So it's
displaying what that looks like.
Down here I have this array list
and I have this one here, all
contained within one big array
list, so that's what we want.
All right, so I'm going to stop
it at this point. And I'm gonna
say queue. Let's quit it. And
now under the part would
actually writes it to the file.
Alright, So what we're going to
do here is we're going to create
a string build. There's a bunch
of different ways you can do
this. Essentially, you just need
it to have one string value that
has all your or one string of
characters with your value,
comma, value, comma, and.
Yeah, yeah.
But I'm doing it with a string
builder here that will kind of
like add these values separately
to a single string, just because
it's easier to follow in my
opinion, to kind of understand
the different components that
make up that CSV file. So the
first thing we have to do here
is we're gonna manually actually
put in the values because it's
going to create that header row
for us. It's going to say name,
favorite color, number of pets.
It's gonna be the header like in
a spreadsheet.
So when I step through this
here, it creates a string
builder and this is just how you
create it here. So you can use
this in your assignments. We're
gonna have to do the append the
append method and all this does
is it takes in a string value
and it's just gonna basically
say. All right, take that string
and put it in this string that I
have. I have another one dot
append. OK now put that right in
the end of it every append ID is
just gonna keep adding those
values right to the end and make
one longer string. So that's
what it's doing I'm saying add
name. Now I'm gonna add the
column comma I could have done
this.
All on a single append, but I'm
splitting it up here to show you
the separation of the CSV parts,
right? So then it's gonna add
the comma, then it's gonna add
favorite color, a comma and
number of pets.
Now the important part is after
this I need to add a line
separator because this is what's
going to make it jump down to
the next line in my CSV file or
essentially the next row in my
table. If I don't do this, my
CSV file is going to be one
really long line and nothing's
gonna be separated by rows. It's
just gonna think it's all one
row of data. So it's important
that we put the line separator
at the end here.
So once we do that, if I were to
hover over the USB part.
Great. Hover over that that
string builder object I can
actually see the final CSV
version right here. This string.
This is the single string it
created and you can see it's
exactly how I want it. Name
comma, favorite color, comma,
number of pets. Now all we have
to do is the easy operation of
writing this to the file and.
Writing something to a file is
just a very simple one line
part. It's actually creating
that data that you need. That's
the harder part that takes all
the time. So to do it, you just
have to call that object that
you created way at the top here
and the try block.
It's called be, right? So just
do be writer write and then
inside of that you just pass in
the string value.
So that's what you doing SB .2
string and then it's gonna write
that to the file.
So now what we need to do.
One here. Let me just see some
drunk. OK, so now what we need
to do is actually.
Loop through that data that I
had right the data that we
collected and then print that
out. So to do that, I'm gonna
loop through that table. I'm
gonna go row by row and then
each value by column to print it
out. So I'm gonna use the string
briller that I've created up
here, but the first thing I have
to do is clear it out, which is
what you see here. It needs to
be empty, otherwise it's just
going to keep appending like I
had mentioned earlier. It's
going to keep appending to it,
and we're just have one really
big long string at the end. So.
I'm creating this loop again.
You can copy this to create your
own loops for the you know
understand the syntax of how to
do it, but it's gonna say I'm
creating a for loop. I'm gonna
start at the index of 0 and I'm
going to go all the way until or
it's gonna continue as long as
that value I or zero is less
than the size of the table. So
essentially it's just gonna go
through every row that I have.
And this is just the increment
counter here, so that's all it's
doing. It's just looping through
every row in that table.
So for every row in the table,
the first thing I have to do,
like I said, I have to clear out
the string builder so you can
just do SB dot delete.
We're going to talk. Where to
start, which is the 0 index and
where to end, and then that's
just going to be the length of
it. So it's going to be the the
whole string builder, all the
text within it. We're just going
to clear it out completely on
now if I hover string build, you
can see that I have 0 nothings
in there, it's empty count of 0,
there's no values in it, which
is good. That's what we want. So
now we have to append the values
that we need, which are gonna be
for that specific row.
Umm.
In this case I have output
table. I need to specify what
row I want which is gonna be
just essentially what iteration
I'm going through that loop. So
we're gonna use the I variable
here, which is just the index
value, so it's set to 0. So
we're going to say get zero. I
mean, that's what it means
really. I 0, which is gonna get
the first row and then the next
get after that is going to be
the column. So I know because
I've I created this here. I know
that the.
Index of 0 the first column is
gonna be for the name and I put
these in comments here so you
can understand that too. And
then the second one would be
favorite color and the third
room will be a number of pets.
It's a zero based index. So it's
really 01 and two, right. So I
just, I know that the index of
one is the 2nd column and it's
for the favorite color.
So once I do that and I use the
get on both of those, so again
this gets the row and this gets
the column value.
Once I do that.
I can check and it'll you'll see
that it added the value here the
first row, the first value.
For the first column value and
then I have to add a comma
support. They add a comma cause
it's gotta be CSV right? So I
can continue doing that for the
other two. Again the key here is
to make sure that this just
increments for each row. So if
you have in your assignments and
you have to do, let's see your
file operations data set for the
crime data is 5 columns and you
want to pull that in or for
whatever reason I think you have
to read from it. You're gonna
want to make sure that you're
able to.
Get those values for all those
comments so it won't be just
012, it would be 012345 or
whatever. I think this applies
more for your BMI calculator
though.
OK. So then that's it. If I look
at SBC after that, I can see
that there's my CSV line, Daniel
Blue too. Now it's gonna want to
write that immediately
afterwards. So within that loop,
for each iteration of you going
through it, essentially each row
you're going to want to clear
out the string builder, add
those values for the row, and
then write it every time. So
you're going to create that row
and write it. So that's what
it's doing there. And then it's
going to do this one more time.
After that's done, it's going to
say, hey, I have an index of 1
and my total size of the table
is. It's not gonna tell us, but
it's gonna be 2. So if I
increment at one more, it's no
longer gonna meet the criteria
of being less than two, so it's
going to exit out, and that's
what happens here. It exits out,
so there's no exception. So it
didn't catch anything. Now we're
in the finally block. We're
gonna close it. The program is
exiting, and we're all good to
go.
And the program has stopped. OK,
so now that we're in here, I
have the output and let me open
up that file and you can see
it's right here. It opens up an
excel by default, but you see I
have my headers.
Name favorite color, number of
pets, and then I had those
values that it added there. So
it did on row by row. That's how
we did them here.
If I wanted to actually look at
the CSV part, I would just open
it in Notepad and you can see
here's the exact CSV formatted
rows.
Formatted strengths. So that's
how you create the output demo.
Now for the input one, you're
just reading those values in.
This is a bit shorter.
This one is going to be.
Your assignment, not the course
project, but the actual
assignment.
I believe.
You could just use this example.
This should be the template you
use. You should only have to use
this one because you already
have that file created, so this
would be a good thing to keep
note of is you can pretty much
just use this.
Plug in your own stuff though.
Alright, so the way this works
here is we're going to specify
the file path of our file that
we're going to read. In your
case, it would be the file
operations data set.
I think that's what it was
calling it, right? Yeah, which
is the crime data for your
module 4 assignment. Wherever
you save that to.
My color and pets demo thing is
just saved right here. I know it
is, so that's what I'm creating
it here. I'm going to create a
buffered reader. If you noticed
for this.
Output demo that I just did. It
was a buffered writer because
you're writing to it.
In this case here I want to read
from the file, so I'm creating a
buffered reader. I have to
create the exact same way. The
only difference from the other
example is that I actually am
using a file path variable and I
created that way at the top here
you could hard code this and
just copy that, put the quoted
part directly into the file
reader parentheses here maybe
just fine too.
OK, so it creates the buffered
reader.
Again, we're using this whole
list of lists thing. Think of it
as tables and rows. I'm creating
that first and then I have to
read through every single line
in this file and then it's gonna
add that into an array. So
you'll see what that looks like.
Here I'm creating this string
value here that's called reader
line is basically just.
Umm. A string value for every
single line that we have. It's
going to loop through all of the
lines in this entire file, all
with three of them I guess, and
it's gonna read each one. This
loop is set to go through it
until it finds no more of them,
right? So it's going to go read
line or I'm sorry, be reader dot
readline.
Until it's not equal to null, so
when it returns a value back.
It's not going to be null, but
when it runs out of lines to
read, that's the null value.
It'll see and then it'll exit
out because of that. So that's
what the checking for it.
Basically this whole line is
just saying hey, as long as
there's stuff to read, just keep
looping through it.
So I'm in my loop and I have
this reader line here because I
created it from B reader dot
read line. It kind of like next
line for the scanner except this
doesn't take your typing input,
it just reads it from the file.
So read line it took that value
and assigned it to reader line.
Here that I have and now if I
hover over it hopefully we can
see it took the entire first
line there.
And that string format.
But this is a single string
value, so we need to split it up
because it's a CSV format,
right? So to do that it's pretty
easy. Fortunately we have this
awesome string operation that's
built in for us called split.
The split method we call the
split method and then we just
specify what the criteria is or
what value you want it to split
based off of. And this thing in
this case we're saying split
based off the comma and that's
what we're doing here. So I'm
going to.
What's what's split? Does it
actually returns an array? It
turns that collection of values
based on splitting it from that
comma value. So that's exactly
what we're gonna do here. We're
going to go call that, and if we
see it actually creates the
array for us. And if you look
here.
They're split up. I have three
different elements here. Name,
favorite color, number of pets.
And instead of being one string,
it's an array of three submit
string values.
Now I'm going to add this to our
input table, right? It's gonna
be the header, but so it's gonna
be like the first row, but it
it's it's gonna be in that like
rows and columns format. So to
do this I'm gonna use an array
the erase class and do erase dot
as list.
And then I passed in the array.
What this does is essentially
just converts that array into a
list format, which is what we
want to use because our table is
made U of lists right O all
we're doing is converting that
over to it and then it adds it
directly. So it's just taking
this table and it's adding this
row directly to it. It's just
doing the conversion in line.
So that's all it's doing. It's a
very short two line loop there.
It's gonna go through it one
more time.
Now when we hover over input
table we can see we have three
sets of array lists and the
listed out here.
Exactly what we're expecting.
So basically we just what we did
was we took a bunch of data
collections of data from the
first demo we took that data,
put it into string values, comma
separated, wrote it to a file.
Now what we did was we just took
those string values, read all of
them, split them up by commas
and then put them back into a
data format of tables and rows.
And that's what we just did.
Just bring it right back. So now
what we're going to do through,
excuse me. Now what we're going
to do at this point here is
we're going to basically just
print out the values just so you
can see them. O fortunately, I
only have.
Three of them to go through
here, but this is just
displaying those for you that
say, hey, Yep. Look, I have all
of these roads that I wanted to
now for your assignment. So you
didn't really need that part
that I just went through that
loop. But for your assignment,
this part really applies for
you.
I'm finding the total number of
pets you need to find the total
crime.
What is it? It's a total.
Crime per year? Let me see what
come this expense report. Your
total, I guess, right. So this
will be the last column for you.
And that file you have to total
those up. So in my case I'm just
going to say, hey, total of the
number of pets, also the last
column in my list or in my,
yeah, I guess list of values. So
I have like 2 and one right
you'll have like 14,000 values
but so that's what this is
doing. I'm setting it, I'm
declaring this first, setting it
to 0 just so I have it here and
I can use it.
And then next, I'm going to
specify the index of the value
that I want, like the column O.
In this case. I know from
looking at the file that the
value I want for my number of
pets is the last column, so it's
pretty easy because I can just
say input table.
That get 0 dot size minus one,
so it's going to say hey, give
me the first row and give me the
last index that you have for
that row. I only need to do the
first row because all the other
rows are the same.
So as long as I see that first
row which is the header row in
this case and I can say how big
is it? OK, it's a size of. Well
my case it'll be the size of
three, then git 3 -, 1 which is
2. So that means the last index
that I can have is 2. So if I
ask for the value at the
location of index two, it's
going to give me that third
column.
I know it's it's weird to follow
along with the whole 0 based
index thing, but that's how they
all work. So if you see here,
last column index is set to two.
Because I know I only have 3
columns, you'll have more in
your assignment.
And the next I need to loop
through it because.
Umm, I'm sorry, I need to loop
through it now for every row to
add them all up. You'll have to
do the same for you. I'm using
this loop right here. Go ahead
and use the same loop. What this
is doing is it's going to start
and say loop through every
single row and just add up.
The values in that last column,
right, which is why it was
important to get the last column
index.
So if you notice here I have I =
1 instead of 0 and that's
because I don't want to add up
the value from the first row
because it's just the header. So
I'm gonna start it with an index
of 1, which is actually the the
2nd row.
So that way it skips the first
one. Otherwise if we try to
include it, we'd immediately get
an exception thrown at us and
that wouldn't work because we
don't want to add U the header
name.
When a column name.
So this this is just a loop
simple loop, it's gonna go
through every single row and in
here every row it's just gonna
say hey look at the input table.
Get whatever row I want to be
on. In this case it's going to
start with one, so is going to
be one and then within that row
get me the last column value.
Right. I could have put two in
there, but I'm trying to do it
right because I know that it's
the last column. So in the event
that I, you know, add more in
front of it, I'll still always
have the correct value.
So that's what I'm doing here.
And then if you see I'm doing a
plus equals. So I'm saying total
number of pets plus equals this
value. That means it's just
gonna increments it or it's
gonna add to itself every time.
So this is gonna say total
number of pets equals total
number of pets plus whatever
this value is. So we'll see what
that looks like right here.
Since total of pets was zero.
When I add the value to it, it's
just gonna be 2 because it's 0 +
2. Right. But we should see next
it's gonna try and add one to it
because my number of pets for my
second set of inputs was one.
Now told him her pets will be
set to three because it just
said take toll number of pets,
which was two and then add one
to it.
And so that's how that works. So
I would suggest using that
shorthand. It's just nice.
That's all I had. So then I'm
going to print out the total
number of pets and yeah, that's
what it looks like there on the
bottom.
So really the important part is
going to be for your assignment.
It's going to be this. You have
to print out the total.
Or I'm sorry. You actually have
to write the total.
I just printed it out. You
actually have to write it so
it's slightly misleading there,
but you actually have to do
output. You actually have to
output this, but it's super
simple because all you have to
do is create a writer and you
can just simply call.
Like this right here. That's all
you really have to do.
I mean in this case I don't have
it created but like instead of
printing it like I did, you
could just do this.
Umm.
Wow, I'm gonna be lazy and I'm
just going to copy what I have.
There you go. I think it just
made this too easy.
Yeah. So what this does is this
is just gonna write that to the
file there.
Except I just continued through
it, so it's going to be really
quick. So let's see here.
Alright, program is exiting.
It's not say that alright.
So when you do this, let's see
the number of pets.
Crater, right. Well, I do need
to probably put it in my.
Let's try this out real quick.
Oh.
Alright, let me check some not
there. Ohh man the values all
weird.
But that's how you have to write
it to it.
You can have to make sure you
create a buffer right, but it'll
be simple. You don't have to do
all that other stuff that I just
did in the other table, you
know, with like the whole string
builder is appending it all to
the output table. You just have
to output it. I don't really
care if it's like fancy, I just
need to have the one.
Cell that's gonna stay. Like
what? The total is, it could
just be a simple number. You
don't have to have that. CSV
just has to put it in the CSV
format I guess is what it says.
So just output that not printing
out like I did. So I kind of
actually want to have you guys
work on that one, but it's all
there so.
This pretty much entire input
demo one you can use.
The only thing you would have to
really add on your own is
actually the buffered writer
part. Writing it to the file.
Now your BMI. You know what? Let
me just go through the
assignment instructions first,
but OK. So I'm going to post
these demos. Hopefully I'll can
follow through it.
All right, of course. Bridge
assignment. OK, so for the
actual assignment, here are your
instructions. Ohh for the course
project assignment. Yeah, the
instructions. Just one step,
step 6. So you gotta store all
the information in a file.
You need to use a loop and keep
asking the users to enter the
patients name, height, weight
and birthday. Your program needs
to calculate the categories just
like you're normally doing, but
you need to now write it to a
file and then because you're
using a loop to take in the
input values, you need to have
it stop taking the inputs once
they press the Q character.
Qki. Whatever. Umm, so that's
really the requirement here is
that you need to be able to
write it to the program or I'm
sorry, write it to the file and
then.
Excuse me? Uh, stop. When they
press the Q character. So you
should just be building on to
your program there. So instead
of having it be more linear with
just once of inputs, you got to
throw that in a loop.
So maybe I misspoke when I
stated this, but for the BMI.
Project I believe you only need
to use just the output demo
because all you're doing is
taking in these values and
you're outputting it right. Of
course you need to also
calculate the BMI and stuff, but
you're gonna be doing that just
within this while loop. You can
do all your calculations, all
that stuff for each set of
inputs, and you're gonna want to
save it. You could do it if you
different ways, but you could do
it all within your while loop
and just save it directly as a
row each time, just like I did
here.
And then go through afterwards
and then create your string
builders or your string builder
and then write it to it. But you
should only need to use just
this one output demo or your BMI
project.
But for the assignment, you'll
have to use both like I just
showed you, or at least part of
the one.
So for this one you need to
download that file. I already
showed it to you, but again I'll
post it. It's the file
operations data set, so step one
read the data from the CSV file.
That's what you have to do,
right? You have to read the
data. I just had my demo there
show you how to read the case
file, CSV file, Step 2 analyze
the data.
Now that means is to like, just
understand what it what it's
doing like what's the context of
the data.
Yeah, it it doesn't actually
mean to like do anything
technical with it. Just like,
yeah, it's there and analyzing
it.
And then Step 3 Add all the
numbers from the report. Your
total column right. So in my
example I had total number of
pets. Do you will have to do the
report your total column? It's
the last column so that should
make it easier for you. And then
step four create another file
and write the output of the
total crime numbers that you've
added up from Step 3.
Again, I just showed you you
just need to output that one
value. You don't have to do any
type of string builder stuff
just to you know your your
writer dot write.
Straight to the file and you'll
be just fine.
Umm, OK, so let's see. That's
gonna be that.
Yeah. So you just need one Java
file for this one for this
assignment, and you'll be just
fine actually, for both. You'll
only really need the one Java
file each each assignment. OK,
the tips? I guess this really
isn't helpful if you just use my
demos, you can use the code from
there, but you want your
buffered reader.
Use the buffered reader class.
Yeah, watch the demo. There you
go.
Alright.
Discussion this one on input and
output streams. Compare and
contrast the input versus output
streams like give at least one
example of an input and output
stream. I mean pretty
self-explanatory.
I just don't just stay there
like once for input, once for
output actually specify some
differences though.
OK, discussion rules.
Already went over those.
So I'm gonna skip through that
live classroom assignment, which
is preferred buffered or non
buffered stream. I feel like if
you're watching you should
definitely know that one.
All right. Oh, midterm service.
OK, so by now, hopefully you
would have gotten an e-mail. I'm
thinking about taking, like, a
midterm survey.
Umm, that is actually located.
I think it's gonna be located.
Uh, not there.
Uh, where is it? Is it in module
4?
Maybe I'm just not seeing it.
I'll leave if someone else knows
where it's at. Module 3 it's
like. There you go. It's in
module 3. Maybe I should have
mentioned it there. Module 3,
There's this midterm survey that
you can take at the bottom
there. And I I suggest doing it
if you can. It's really helpful.
It's just going to be some basic
questions about the course and I
think.
Pretty much anything related to
the course.
It'd be great if you could take
it. Any feedback is good, good
or bad.
It'll just help me as an
instructor to be better and to
change anything if things needed
to be changed within the course
before they end. I'm just any
midterm feedback is always good
to have.
So if you can't take that,
that'd be great. It is
anonymous, so I won't know your
answers. However, I will let you
know that I can see.
If someone has taken it, just
not what the answers are. That
being said, the more important
survey is gonna be the end of
term survey. That one is like
completely anonymous. It's
through a whole different type
of thing that one more thorough
and that one if you're not. If
you're only going to take one
survey, I would suggest doing
that one, that one. I don't even
get the results from until the
course is closed. The grades are
in. So there's No Fear of
anything there.
Completely anonymous, but it's
always helpful, good or bad
feedback. Any feedback is good.
So alright. I just wanted to
mention that. Please take the
surveys if you can and I'll
probably e-mail you constantly
bugging you anyway so.
Alright, I think that will be
it. Then, if there's no
questions, I guess I will see
you next module. If you do have
questions, just stick around and
I'm more than happy to answer
them.
O.
All right, take care.